[Music]
and in colorado
it's a fitness test that stands between
the young black-footed ferrets
and a life in the wild
it's kind of like sending the kids off
to their first day of school
they have 30 days to prove that they can
live like wild ferrets
if they make the grade they'll go back
to the wild at one of the release sites
program leader paul marinari has a
series of outdoor pens
where the kits and their mums can learn
the basics of life in the wild
so the ferret bus has landed at penn c7
so just gonna place them in here by
one of the burrows
[Music]
and you have to wonder what's going
through their minds
they spent their first 90 days in a
relatively small cage
and now they come out here and it's like
wow big world
grass wind rain snow
you know kyle italian in the distance so
it's it's that next step
[Music]
their mum has been in one of these pens
before and quickly gives her new
accommodation that once over
[Music]
her kits are likely to take more than a
bit of persuading
before they dare step foot into this
brave new world
the mom's trying to get the kits out of
the box and into the burrow
and the kids are trying to get mom from
the burrow into the box
[Music]
you have to imagine they've spent their
first 90 days that's home to them
so it's uh it's that one step out of
that box
it's a totally different world mum has a
total of
five reluctant youngsters to try to coax
out
into an uncertain future any time you
deal with
captive animals you're going to see not
only the births which are very exciting
but also the mortalities they may not
all survive to be released into the wild
so what's on the agenda it's all about
learning to live in burrows and eating
unfamiliar food
[Music]
and eventually they're gonna have to
learn to catch
their own supper in the form of live
prairie dogs
while one family starts this 30-day
preparation process
another is finishing theirs so paul's
going to gather them up
for stage three
we put mom and three kits in this pan
a little more than a month ago so we're
trying to trap them up
these three kits are scheduled for
reintroduction in new mexico
yup you can see the kit
female kit
it's a little heavy but not too bad and
that chatter they make is just a
agitation chatter that they have
but we'll get them inside and get them
all ready to go
three more ferrets going back to the
wild is great news
but before they can leave for good they
have to go through one more process
first they need two vaccinations one
against canine distemper
and the other against sylvatic plague a
disease fatal to the ferrets
on top of this they get a thorough
health check a dose of antibiotics
and a transponder all designed to give
them the best
possible chance of survival it's the
same thing as a microchip
that you put in dogs and cats it's just
a unique
identification number and we'll just
make sure
in total 12 kits are going to be
released this time round
today a box in colorado and tomorrow
a new life living wild on the plains of
new mexico
this project shows what can be achieved
when you have a whole government
department supporting your breeding
[Music]
programme
you